BHARATIYA NYAYA SANHITA (BNS) 2024 - KEY SECTIONS FOR PROPERTY OFFENCES

 CHAPTER XVII: OF OFFENCES AGAINST PROPERTY

 Section 303: Punishment for theft.
 (1) Whoever commits theft shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both, and in the case of a second or subsequent conviction of any person under this section, he shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year, but which may extend to five years, and with fine.
 (2) Whoever commits theft of any property from any building, tent or vessel used as a human dwelling, or for the custody of property, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

 Section 304: Snatching.
 (1) Theft is "snatching" if, in order to commit theft, the offender suddenly or quickly or forcibly seizes or secures or grabs or takes away from any person or from his possession any moveable property.
 (2) Whoever commits snatching shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine.

 Section 305: Extortion.
 Whoever intentionally puts any person in fear of any injury to that person, or to any other, and thereby dishonestly induces the person so put in fear to deliver to any person any property, or valuable security or anything signed or sealed which may be converted into a valuable security, commits "extortion".

 Section 307: Robbery.
 In all robbery there is either theft or extortion. Theft is "robbery" if, in order to the committing of the theft, or in committing the theft, or in carrying away or attempting to carry away property obtained by the theft, the offender, for that end, voluntarily causes or attempts to cause to any person death or hurt or wrongful restraint, or fear of instant death or of instant hurt, or of instant wrongful restraint.

 Section 317: Stolen Property.
 (1) Property, the possession whereof has been transferred by theft, or by extortion, or by robbery, and property which has been criminally misappropriated or in respect of which criminal breach of trust has been committed, is designated as "stolen property", whether the transfer has been made, or the misappropriation or breach of trust has been committed, within or without India.
 (2) Whoever dishonestly receives or retains any stolen property, knowing or having reason to believe the same to be stolen property, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.
